# CodeFundo
Prediction And Management of Natural Disasters                                                                                             
Application:-                                                                                                                             
The purpose of this application is to save lives by predicting floods and also helping people stuck in floods.                             
The App have two parts one that deals with the prediction of Floods and other with management of Floods.                                   
Prediction:-                                                                                                                               
Flood predictions can be made by predicting:                                                                                               
    - The amount of rainfall occurring on a realtime basis.                                                                               
    - The rate of change in river stage on a realtime basis, which can help indicate the severity and immediacy of the threat.            
With the help of Machine Learning and analysing data from Global Flood Monitoring System (GFMS) we can estimate the plausible places which are prone to the disaster. This app will give alert to the user about the flood giving them substantial time to act before the disaster and government can also prepare relief and evacuation accordingly. This will help to reduce the loss of life and property.                 
GFMS relies on precipitation data from NASA’s Earth observing satellites. Rainfall data is combined with a land surface model that incorporates vegetation cover, soil type, and terrain to determine how much water is soaking in--and how much is feeding the streamflow.   
We can view statistics for rainfall, streamflow, water depth, and flooding every 3 hours at each 12 km gridpoint on a global map.  Forecasts for these parameters go out to 5 days. We can use Machine Learning to find the places which are often flooded during a particular time and the intensity of the flood.                                                                                           
Management:-                                                                                                                               
Most importantly the app will contain emergency contacts of relief teams so that the user can contact them in order to seek evacuation. Secondly many people are not aware of basic survival skills in conditions of disaster they can look up for basic skills in the guide which will be provided in the app these features will be completely offline so that user who are not able to find internet connection in disaster can still look up the survival guide 
